Jesus takes leave of His holy Mother and enters into the Cenacle, to make there the Pasch and to wash the feet of his apostles, and even of Judas. 

I adore you, O my divine Jesus! in this profound humility. Grant me the grace of abasing myself beneath all creatures, and purify my soul from all the stains of sin. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus Christ institutes the Holy Eucharist, and predicts to his apostles that one of them would betray him. 

I thank you, my God, for the institution of the holy sacrament, and for the gift that you then made us of your precious body and blood. Never permit me, I implore you, to receive you unworthily. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus makes His last Discourse after the Supper, and then passes the torrent of Cedron to go to the Garden of Olives, followed by his three disciples. 

Grant me the grace, my divine Savior, that the three powers of my soul may be always so occupied with you, that passing the torrent of this life, I may never abandon myself to that of my passions. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus prays with his face on the ground: “O my Father,” says He, “if it be possible, let this chalice pass from Me; nevertheless, not My will, but Thine be done.” He goes to visit his disciples; he finds them asleep and admonishes them to watch and to pray. 

O my God! draw my soul from this mortal lethargy in the way of salvation and grant me, by the merits of your prayer in the Garden of Olives, the true gift of prayer. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is consoled by an angel, and begins to sweat blood. 

O my divine Jesus! I renounce with all my heart all natural and human consolations; make your precious blood flow upon my soul, to purify and to sanctify it. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus goes to meet his enemies. Judas betrays him with a kiss. 

I adore you, my divine Master! I have a horror of the treason of your disciple. Never permit me to imitate him by receiving you unworthily in the holy communion. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is taken, bound and tied with cords and taken with many indignities to Jerusalem. 

Deliver me, sweet Jesus! From the bonds of the servitude of sin, which is your enemy and mine, and attach me inseparably to you. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is conducted to the house of Annas, and from there to the house of Caiphas, accused by false witnesses. 

I beg of you the grace, my divine Jesus, to profit so well by the holy example, that I may suffer willingly all the accusations that can be formed against me, without offering any excuse. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is denied three times by St.@ Peter, and the cock crew; and Jesus having looked at him, made him aware of his fault.

Cast upon me, O my divine Jesus, a look so favorable that it may penetrate my heart with a lively contrition for my sins, and grant me the grace that having imitated St.@ Peter in his infidelity, I may imitate him in his penitence. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Whilst in the prison Jesus is blindfolded and struck. 

Adorable Jesus! Close my eyes and my heart to all the objects of the earth, in order that, being open but to your sufferings and humiliations, I may unite myself to them with all my heart. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is sent bound to Pilate, who interrogates him on his royalty; Jesus answers him that his kingdom is not of this world. 

I acknowledge you, my God, for the King of my heart: banish from it your enemies, in order that I may merit that at the hour of my death you may acknowledge me for your child. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Pilate sends Jesus to Herod. 

Grant me, loveable Savior, this holy folly, in which consists all true wisdom. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is compared to Barabbas. 

O my adorable Savior! It is to cure my pride and my ambition that you have willed to be compared to a thief and a murderer. My pride will be extreme if your humility destroy it not. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is fastened to the pillar and cruelly scourged. 

Pardon me, Lord, my too great sensibility and delicacy, and by the precious blood that you have shed in your flagellation, purify my soul from all the stains of sin. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is crowned with thorns, and they put a reed in his hand in derision. 

They are my sins of thought, O my divine Savior, which have forced into your sacred head this cruel crown of thorns! Transpierce my heart with them, I implore you, and destroy my pride by your humiliations. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Pilate presents Jesus to the people, saying to them, ‘Ecce homo’, ‘Behold the man’. 

Oh, how much has it cost you, my divine Jesus, to be made man! However disfigured you are by my sins, I adore you and acknowledge you for my Lord and my God. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is condemned to death. 

O my Savior! You have suffered yourself to be condemned to death to give me the life of grace; grant me, I beseech you, so to profit by it, that I may not have the misfortune of being condemned by you at the hour of my death. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is charged with his cross, and carries it to Calvary. 

Oh! How the weight of my sins oppresses you, my adorable Savior! pardon me them, I implore you, by this heavy Cross which you have carried to Calvary, and grant me by it the grace to bear patiently all those that you shall please to send me. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is fastened to the cross between two thieves. 

I adore you, O my Savior Jesus Christ crucified! I beg of you, very humbly, the pardon of all my sins; I give you my heart; fasten it to your Cross, I beseech you, with the three divine virtues of faith, hope and charity. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus converts the good thief and prays for his enemies. 

Remember me, my divine Savior, now that you are in your kingdom, and pardon me my sins, since for the love of you I pardon, from my heart, all persons who may have offended me. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus exclaims, I thirst, and recommends his holy Mother to his well-beloved disciple John. 

I thirst after you, adorable Jesus, refresh my languishing soul, which desires but you, and give me, I implore you, to your holy Mother. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross.		 

Jesus expires upon the Cross, after having said, “All is consummated.”

Grant me the grace, my divine Savior, by this last sigh, which terminated the work of our redemption, in terminating your life, that the last of mine may be united to it, and may I be so happy as to render it into your heart. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus has his side pierced with a lance; there flowed from it blood and water. 

Precious blood of my Savior, sanctify me; sacred water which flowed from his side, wash and purify my soul from all sin. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is taken down from the Cross and put into the arms of his Holy Mother. 

O holy Virgin! by this sword, of sorrow which transpierced your sacred heart, imprint in mine all the sufferings of your divine Son; make me feel them so sensibly in this life, that they may be for me a source of glory in the next. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Jesus is buried and left in the tomb. 

O my Jesus! I pray you make me always remember your Passion; and grant that I also, a miserable sinner, overcome at last by so many loving devices, may return to love you, and to show you, by my poor love some mark of gratitude for the excessive love which you, my God and my Savior, have borne to me. We adore you, O Jesus, because you have redeemed us by your Holy Cross. 

Before the Triduum

Christ is risen!

The apostles distraught after Jesus’ death.# 

Jesus Preaching